LAGOS (Sundiata Post) – The Managing Director/Chief Executive of Fidelity Bank Plc, Mr Nnamdi Okonkwo, has commended the Board and Members of the Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry (LCCI) for the successful Trade Fairs they have been organising since 1986. He also explained the factors responsible for the success story of Fidelity Bank. Okonkwo spoke on Thursday at the 2016 Lagos International Trade Fair organised by the Chamber, holding at the Tafawa Balewa Square in Lagos. Okonkwo recalled: “Over the years, the Chamber has attracted local and foreign exhibitors to this annual trade extravaganza. It has continued to provide an avenue for various trade groups and professionals to showcase new products and ideas as well as tap into the myriads of business opportunities that exist in Nigeria, Africa’s most populous country.” Continuing, he said: “As you are aware, the year has continued to offer its fair share of challenges and prospects. In spite of the harsh business environment, Fidelity Bank’s success story is anchored on improved service quality, innovative products and services tailored to meet the varying needs of our numerous customers, which is beyond generic financial intermediation. “The Bank’s recent re-branding is a clear testament of its dogged pursuit of excellence in service delivery. “All around us, we see many reasons to believe in our outlook to business, the Fidelity way of seeing and doing things; the Fidelity Culture. “Our efforts aimed at aiding the diversification of the country’s monolithic economy has been celebrated world over. Interestingly, we have continued to channel significant human and financial resources into the real sector, particularly in the area of can manufacturing, Food and Beverages, and Independent Power Projects (IPPs). “Similarly, we have continued to demonstrate our commitment to our unwritten social contract with the community through our inventive corporate social responsibility (CSR) initiatives. Expectedly, we have received the wide endorsement of the discerning public having been repeatedly named Africa’s Most Socially Responsible Bank and Nigeria’s Most Socially Responsible Bank. “Ladies and Gentlemen, at our stand, we offer full banking services while our experienced staff are readily available with our tailored product offerings that meet your financial needs. “As you open a Fidelity Account, you begin a partnership that is primarily hinged on growth and trust. We are more than just a business transaction – we are committed to the long-term expansion of your business as we leverage our proven expertise, and highly trained professionals to take you and your business to the next level of growth. “Our Bank offers a broad spectrum of products and services that meet the ever-growing requirements of our teeming customer. “Specifically, we have six variants of savings products that cater to the needs of various market segments that the bank focuses on. “As such, we organise yearly promos and loyalty schemes to reward our faithful customers and encourage them to imbibe savings culture. “Presently, we are running a promo tagged ‘Get Alert In Millions Promo’. The promo focuses on improving the standard of living of our customers, as the winners pockets are enriched with more cash. The total cash wins expected to be given out at the in months duration of this promo is N105 million and over 200 consolation prizes such as fridges and generators. “All these prizes will be given out at monthly and quarterly draws. In addition to the Get Alert In Millions Promo, we are currently running a loyalty scheme on two of our savings products…….FPSS and SWEETA. “Today, we shall be presenting loyalty cash rewards to 10 beneficiaries – five FPSS account holders with N500,000 Xtra income each and five (5) SWEETA account holders with N150,000 school fees support each while other 288 recipients will be availed with their reward in the same range across our Regional banks nationwide. “It’s worthy to note that these loyalty reward recipients are selected quarterly and over N1.7 billion has been paid in the last 15 months when the scheme commenced. “Apart from the above product offerings, we also have other investments, credit and electronic banking channels tailored to meet your banking needs. These services are available at our Stand and at any of our branch locations nationwide. “I will not end this address without thanking our valued customers. Without you, we would not have achieved the height we are celebrating today. You have been extremely supportive and loyal all these years.”