By Yemi Adeleye
Lagos – The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has assembled more than 1,500 card readers for the Dec. bye-election in Ifako-Ijaiye
Federal Constituency to achieve seamless exercise. Mr Clement Oha, the Administrative Secretary of the commission, told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Lagos on Saturday that the number was twice higher than the number needed for the election. NAN reports that the bye-election is as a result of the death of Mr Elijah Adewale, who represented the constituency in the House of Representatives. Adewale died in Abuja on July 20. Oha said that there were only 687 polling units in the constituency. “We have prepared a good number of card readers for the election. We have assembled more than 1,500 card readers for accreditation of eligible voters. “We are charging these card readers and taking adequate steps to ensure that none of them fails. If any fails, because they are machine, we will fix it, or replace immediately. “We have made adequate preparations; card readers have helped us to reduce multiple voting,” he said. Oha gave the assurance that INEC would provide a level playing ground for all political parties to enable a free and fair election. The INEC boss urged all political parties and their leaders to advise there supporters against violence. “My message is that all parties should observe the rules as contained in the electoral Act; let us eschew violence, crisis and any acts capable of marring the poll. “Violence in electoral process can only lead to election not concluded within a period provided by law. “If the environment is conducive and everyone conducts himself or herself in accordance with the law, we can assure residents that, on our part, we will not fail in our mandate,” Oha said. NAN report that the commission, on Nov. 4, held an interactive meeting with leaders of political parties at the headquarters of INEC in the state to give notice of the bye election. The commission said that accreditation and voting would hold simultaneously.