By Abiemwense Moru Abuja –  Members of the House of Representatives, on Thursday in Abuja, took turns to shower encomium on Rep. Philip Shaibu (APC-Edo), who is to assume office as Deputy Governor of Edo. Shaibu, member representing Etsako Federal Constituency, former President, National Association of Nigeria Students (NANS), is to be sworn-in on Saturday as deputy governor of Edo. Godwin Obaseki and Rep. Philip Shaibu were elected as Governor and Deputy Governor respectively in an   election held on Sept. 12, in Edo. Lawmakers, who spoke at a valedictory session held in honour of the deputy governor-elect, extolled his virtues, describing him as a dutiful and patriotic Nigerian committed to the common good. The Speaker, Yakubu Dogara, said that Shaibu, within the period he served as member of the House distinguished himself as a legislator through his contributions to discourse at plenary and other legislative duties. Dogara described Shaibu as an ambassador of the National Assembly, “I have no doubt that the Edo deputy governor-elect will represent the House well in his new duties’’. “We are proud of your contributions to debate. You are a man of character. “You will be running this race in the presence of a crowd of witnesses. We know that you will do well. “We are sending you there as an ambassador of the National Assembly. You must do all within your power to make sure that you do not bring the house to disrepute.’’ Also, Rep. Jerry Alagbaso also described Shaibu as a respectful young man committed to his duties. He, however, admonished him to always consult before taking any decision and that he should not attempt to impeach his Governor.
Responding, Shaibu expressed appreciation to the speaker for the honour and promised that he would not disappoint the House. He expressed appreciation to the outgoing governor of Edo, Adams Oshiomhole and the Oba of Benin, Oba Ewuare 11. Shaibu said he would continue to do his best to ensure the common good. “My experience will help me to assist the governor elect in the service of the people and ensure a cordial working relationship with the governor, ‘’ he said.