Ibadan – An Actor, Debo Showemimo, on Thursday called for revatalisation of entertainment industry to enable it flourish and harness its potential for overall development of the country. Showemimo told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Ibadan that the industry could also promote tourism and reduce youth restiveness while harnessing its potential. He said that the industry could also create huge foreign exchange, employment and reduce social vices in the country. “If our talented youths are engaged in entertainment industry, smoking, killing, robbery, rape, among others, will be reduced in the country. “It can also bring development, especially in communities where stakeholders in the industry reside. ‘’Through it, tourists can be attracted to the country and when they come, that will surely yield money. “The industry also promotes cultural exchange, heritage within and outside Nigeria.
‘
’If artists are empowered, we can be producing enough films and even be exporting; this will bring huge foreign exchange.” The actor, who said that he planned to return to the industry soon, urged his fans not to lose the hope of watching him in plays. “I am busy working on 52 episodes of TV Yoruba comedy series, while praying for same to be transformed into visual for public viewing, soonest. “I love acting, especially comedy, I have passion for it, am not always myself if I don’t take part in any performance. “My family doesn’t interfere in my profession because they understand the ethics of the job; then my children are grown up, am not nursing any, so it’s easy for me.” Showemimo, popularly called ‘Agboworin Baba Juli (ABJ) is in his late 50s. He has been acting for 30 years. He said he had featured in no fewer than 60 films, including TV drama series. He said that he had been off the stage for two decades due to ”negative personal circumstances.” NAN reports that Showemimo became famous in the mid 90’s while producing and featuring in ‘Adunlaye’, a 30-minute Yoruba comedy series transmitted on the defunct NTA Channel 7, Lagos. (NAN)