New York  –  The UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-Moon, has urged member states, businesses and others to step up for gender equality, with full respect for the human rights of women and girls. Ban made the call in his remarks at the opening of the 60th Session of the Commission on Status of Women (CSW) in New York on Monday.
He made a personal appeal for action by all those leaders of countries where not even a single woman is in the parliament or cabinet, to end the injustice.
Ban who did not mention the countries, said:” there are still four countries in the world where not a single woman is represented in the parliament and eight countries without any women in the cabinet. [pro_ad_display_adzone=”70560″] I am not going to disclose the names of the countries today but I am urging them: they know who you are.
“I will be checking every day until the last day of my mandate as secretary-general. “I will keep pushing until the world has no parliaments and no cabinets without any women,” he told delegates. He said that everywhere he travelled; he tried to understand women’s concerns. The UN Chief said that he was angered by women’s political exclusion.
“I am dismayed by the slow progress on maternal health. I knew it was long past time to end the pandemic of violence against women and girls.
“In 2010, we consolidated four different UN entities together under the powerhouse UN Women,’’ Ban said. Speaking further, “I appreciate the excellent leadership of the President of Chile, Michelle Bachelet, who led as the first head of UN Women.
“I am deeply grateful to our outstanding current Executive Director, Ms Phumzile Mlambo-Ngcuka.
“Our new global force for women has made its mark.” Ban said that in clinics and labs, schools and courthouses, farms and boardrooms, women leaders insist on equality and show its value in the face of grave threats and attacks. “Women human rights defenders stand for freedom and women journalists speak out for the truth,’’ he added.
He paid tribute to the thousands of heroines he said he met along the way. Ban also commended the men who joined in fighting for the rights of women because they know women’s rights are human rights.
“As long as one woman’s human rights are violated, our struggle is not over. “The world is full of inequalities and injustices for women and girls but after nearly 10 years as secretary-general, I know those are no match for our resolve to create a future of full equality. “Violent extremists are striking at UN values waging battles on the bodies of women and girls.
“The new UN Plan of Action to Prevent Violent Extremism sets out specific proposals to give women more influence in the global response,”he added.
He said the Plan calls for ensuring that efforts to counter terrorism and violent extremism never violate any human rights.
“When we stay true to our principles, we stay on the right side of history and the winning side on this issue. “I may be leaving my post at the end of this year, but I will never abandon this cause.
“I will always stand with you in the struggle for equality for all women and girls so that we can make this world a better place for all,” he said.
Also speaking, Mlambo-Ngcuka, said that the 60th session of the CSW is taking place after the adoption of the new 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.
The session thus, she added, will build on the momentum garnered in September 2015, in conjunction with the adoption of the 2030 Agenda.
She added that the session’ priority theme is: Women’s empowerment and its link to sustainable development.
“We have to ensure CSW 60 is not imprisoned in a business as usual cage. NAN reports that the CSW is the single largest forum for Member States and other stakeholders to commit to new actions for advancement of women and their empowerment.
No fewer than 1,000 NGOs and 8,100 representatives have registered for the meeting, holding from March 14, to March 24. Over 200 side events will be hosted on the UN premises by Member States and UN entities, many of them in collaboration with civil society, about 150 of them in the first week of CSW alone, alongside 450 parallel events by NGOs. (NAN)