LAGOS — All is set for this year’s edition of The Economist Event’s Nigeria Summit. Philip Walker, Regional Manager of The Economist Intelligence Unit; Miguel Melo Azevedo, Head of Investment Banking, Africa, Citi Group, among others will, on Monday March 7 and Tuesday March 8, join eminent Nigerian businessmen and top government officials—from around the world—to review Nigeria’s current economic situation and provide an overview of the global macro-economic picture, talking through the growth prospects for Nigeria and the region. This will be taking place at the 11th Annual Nigeria Summit being organised by the events’ arm of the The Economist magazine. The two-day summit, themed The Dawn of A New Day, is scheduled to take place at the highbrow Intercontinental Hotel, Lagos. The event will feature exhibitions, experts’ submissions, panel discussions around the opportunities and challenges that lie at the point where technology, infrastructural development, political transparency and global partnerships meet. The forum will bring key government ministry officials, industry and business leaders as well as representatives of the Nigerian civil society; together with international investors, economists and academics to discuss and debate Nigeria’s economic direction. The summit will also examine and review the socio economic challenges that Nigeria is facing in view of her first democratic power transfer and the implication of the global macro-economic forces as being shaped by the ridiculously low global oil prices which is the mainstay of the Nigerian economy. The guest line up and speaker list includes: Prof. Yemi Osinbajo, Vice-President, Federal Republic of Nigeria; Alhaji Aliko Dangote, President and Chief Executive Officer, Dangote Group; Danladi Verheijen, Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director, Verod; Herbert Wigwe, Chief Executive Officer, Access Bank, Nigeria; Okechukwu Enelamah, Minister of Industry, Trade and Investment, Nigeria, Jonathan Rosenthal, Africa Editor, The Economist. Other speakers and panelists are Alhaji Kashim Shettina, Governor, Borno State, Nigeria; Franklin Cudjoe, Founding President and Chief Execuive Officer, IMANI; Philip Lindop, Head of Africa Investment Banking, Barclays Africa Group, Fola Laoye, Chairman, Hygeia Group. The list also includes: Alhaji Umaru Tanko Al Makura, Governor, Nasarawa State, Nigeria; Chief Willie Obiano, Governor, Anambra State, Nigeria, Issam Darwish, Executive Vice Chairman & Chief Executive Officer, IHS Towers; Adebola Williams, Co-Founder, RED among others are also billed to speak at the summit.