PORT HARCOURT (Sundiata Post) – The chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Peace and Reconciliation Committee and Governor of Bayelsa State, Hon Henry Dickson on Wednesday reconciled the warring factions of the party in Imo State. The meeting, which was held at the Bayelsa State Governor’s Lodge, Asokoro in Abuja, lasted several hours. The factions in a communiqué jointly issued after the meeting resolved to unite and join forces to strengthen the PDP and ensure the victory of the party in all elections beginning with the March 19th rerun in Imo North Senatorial zone. While promising to be loyal to the National Working Committee (NWC) and the National Executive Committee (NEC) of the party, the leaders also resolved to cooperate with the national leadership to conduct the forth coming congresses in a free and fair manner in line with the party’s constitution. The meeting also resolved to hold an all-inclusive leadership meeting of the party in Owerri, the Imo State capital under the chairmanship of Dickson. The communiqué was signed by two former governors of the state, Chief Achike Udenwa and Chief Ikedi Ohakim; Senator Hope Uzodinma; former deputy speaker of the House of Representatives, Hon. Emeka Ihedioha; former Minister of Aviation, Dr. Kema Chikwe, Senator Chris Anyanwu, Senator Samuel Anyanwu, Senator Athan Achonu, Col. Austine Akobundu (retd) and pioneer chairman of the PDP in Imo State, Chief Innocent Nwoga. The meeting was also attended by former senators, former ministers and ambassadors, all former state chairmen of the party led by the pioneer chairman, Nwoga and many others. Dickson thanked the party leaders and elders for taking the path of peace in the overall interest of the party and promised to translate the good news to the party leadership. Following the resolve of the National Working Committee (NWC) of the PDP to unite its membership and strengthen the party across the country, the national chairman, Senator Ali Modu Sheriff had set up a peace and reconciliation committee headed by Dickson.