ABUJA – A deputy governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) is currently on suspension for being involved in ‘a sophisticated plot’ to defraud the bank of a huge sum of money.
Top officials of the CBN close to the development told our correspondent that two directors of the bank were also suspended over the multi-million naira scam involving sales of dollars to some selected Bureau De Change Operators.
It was gathered that their suspension was ordered by the CBN Governor, Mr. Godwin Emefiele, after preliminary findings revealed that they might be culpable.
The CBN had in a statement by the Acting Director, Corporate Communications, Isaac Okoroafor, on Thursday night said it had uncovered what it described as a highly sophisticated plot to defraud the bank by some people.
The bank said in a statement by the Acting Director, Corporate Communications, Isaac Okoroafor, that while preliminary investigations had not revealed any accomplices within the bank, some personnel within the CBN had been placed on suspension.
The statement read, “A highly sophisticated plot to defraud the CBN by some criminally minded elements has been uncovered and aborted by the bank.
“Although preliminary investigations so far have not revealed any accomplices within the CBN, the management has decided to place all key personnel involved in the transaction on suspension.
“This is to ensure a full and unfettered investigation. This incidence has been reported to the relevant authorities.”
However, our investigations revealed that the CBN officials diverted the sale of US dollars and other foreign currencies to some selected BDCs, where they were said to have interest, this is at the expense of other BDC operators.
Some of them actually own BDCs where they engage in forex round-tripping, this is clearly against the rules of the apex bank, as it gives due advantage to the said BDCs, the source added.
The CBN in the statement however assured stakeholders in the banking sector that the security within the bankers’ bank remains intact and had not been compromised.
When contacted, the CBN spokersperson, Okoroafor, declined comments on the development.
He said, “I am in a meeting in Calabar. Investigations are ongoing. Some key personnel of the bank have been placed on suspension not because they are the perpetrators. We need to have a full and unfettered investigation. Please note that the perpetrators are from outside. Our correspondent learnt that those involved will be investigated by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) over ‎illegal foreign exchange transactions. (Upshot Reports)
‎
‎
‎