ABUJA – The wife of the President, Mrs Aisha Buhari, on Saturday in Abuja decried poor access to health care services for women and children in the country. Buhari stated this in Abuja during a cocktail in honour of the wives of Heads of Mission in Nigeria at the Presidential Villa, Abuja
.
She said that the occasion was to enable her to interact with the wives of Heads of Mission in Nigeria on issues of mutual benefits. Buhari said that one of the major challenges facing women and children in the country had been lack of access to health care services. She, however, said that through her initiative, “Future Assured,’’ she had been advocating for the improvement and promotion of the health of the vulnerable group in the country. Buhari expressed her commitment to support all efforts aimed at improving the health of women and children as well as their living standard. According to her, the need to interact with the wives of heads of mission becomes necessary as they promote social and cultural images of their various countries. “I know as you all came from far away, it comes with many challenges, but for those of you who have been in Nigeria for long will agreed with me that, hospitality of our people will make you feel at home. She urged them to see Nigeria as their second home even after completing their tenure in the country. The wife of the president urged them to enhance their unity to enable them achieve more progress and promotion for the interest of their children and women. The wife of the president said that such unity would sustain the existing relationship between Nigeria and their respective countries. Buhari thanked them for honouring the invitation, saying that their role as wives heads of missions in the country was a special one. The wife of the Vice-President, Mrs Dolapo Osinbajo, described the occasion as an opportunity for the wives and the wife of the president to interact and explore areas of collaboration between Nigeria and their various countries. Speaking on behalf of other wives of heads of Mission, Mrs Elza Lima, wife of the Brazilian Ambassador, commended Buhari for initiating the event. She expressed optimism that the occasion would go a long way in strengthening the relationship among the wives of heads of mission in the country. (NAN)