New York  –  The Zumunta Association USA on Wednesday endorsed the anti-corruption war being led by President Muhammadu Buhari. Speaking with the News Agency of Nigeria in New York, the President of the association, Dr Ibrahim Salau, commended Buhari for keeping to his campaign promise to fight corruption. Zumunta Association USA is an umbrella organisation of Nigerians in the Diaspora representing the 19 Northern States of the
Federal Republic of Nigeria, and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). [pro_ad_display_adzone id=”70560″] Salau described the fight against corruption as very important, adding that the action would have positive impact on Nigeria. “The president has done far better than any of his predecessors in the area of tackling corruption. “We endorse and applaud him for his determination to bring about transparency and accountability at all levels of the Nigerian economy. “We also applaud the global response, especially by the U.S. for endorsing Buhari’s anti-corruption war. “This is the kind of response we want to hear,” he told NAN. He urged Nigerians and the three arms of government to rise up and support Buhari in the war against corruption. He also stressed on the need for Nigerians to change their attitude towards graft. “We as Nigerians must know the damage that corruption has and is doing to our country. “It hinders economic growth, leads to decay in infrastructure and reduces educational standards,” he said. Salau also commended the Minister of Information, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, for the launch of the series of town hall meetings across the country to take anti-corruption campaign directly to Nigerians. “The message must be registered in the consciousness of our people that corruption is bad and must be treated as such. “We should stand up and speak with one voice on the issues of graft. “Nigeria also needs the cooperation of the international community to support Buhari in the fight against corruption and recover our stolen monies,” he told NAN.(NAN)