Lagos – Security experts in Lagos on Sunday urged security agencies to share information among themselves for effective provision of security to the public. Speaking with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in separate interviews, the experts said that security agencies could only be effective if they worked together and shared information. They said that working together and sharing information would enable them to perform their responsibilities better. Mr Jide Adeaga, a security consultant, said that security agents should not be selfish with information all in the name of trying to claim the glory for an accomplishment. “Security agents should collaborate with other agents of various security agencies and always have in mind the fact that they are all working to protect one Nigeria,” he said. Mr Daniel Fasheun, a security expert, also said that security officials should see sister agencies as a department within their agency with which they can share information to be more effective. “Security officials should share within themselves routine intelligence reports to keep them updated and proactive in tackling cases of insecurity,” he said. Similarly, Mr Charles Sullivan, a security expert, said that security agencies should also enlighten their officials on the need to be open with other security agents while discharging their duty. “Security agents should know when to handle a security issue and when to also pass it on to a sister agency for further investigation. “We all know that the Police is to handle cases of armed robbery but nothing is stopping the military in handling a situation of such but passing it over to the police for further investigation,” he said. However, a retired security personnel, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said that every security agent should protect and maintain cordial relationship with sister agencies. “There are cases whereby sister security agencies fight to take over cases that should ordinarily be divided among each other. “They both go ahead and write different reports just to gain the attention and praises of the public which shouldn’t be,” he said. The personnel said instances of such acts would make fool of security agencies and also make the public to lose trust in them. (NAN)