By Stanley Nwanosike Enugu – The Enugu State Government on Tuesday inaugurated a seven-man panel of inquiry to investigate the recent killings and destruction of properties in Nsukka. Two boundary villages, Umuabo in Ihealumona community and Umuozalla village in Opi community all in Nsukka Local Government of Enugu had a turbulent clash over a land. Mrs Cecilia Ezeilo, Deputy Governor of Enugu, said the decision by Gov. Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi to set up the committee was to find a permanent solution to the problem. Ezeilo said that the move was to ensure peace between the parties. She said that the committee terms of reference included: “investigating and ascertaining the remote and immediate cause of the dispute between the two communities. The deputy governor said the committee should ascertain the number of persons killed or injured and properties destroyed. “The committee is expected to identify the persons, groups or institutions directly or indirectly involved or that sponsored the dispute, make recommendations and provide ways to prevent similar happenings,’’ she said. Ezeilo thanked the members for accepting to serve, adding that she was convinced that they would deploy their experience and integrity in the discharge of their duty. She urged members of the two communities, relevant agencies and the public to accord the committee all necessary support toward achieving its mandate. Responding, the Chairman of the Committee, retired Justice Kingsley Udeh, expressed gratitude for the opportunity given to them to serve the state. Udeh said that they were committed to the task of achieving the best results in the shortest possible time. He said he was optimistic that the intervention would soon reconcile the differences of the communities, which would make them continue to exist as brothers and sisters. The other members of the committee, included: Prof. Onyema Ocheoha, Mr Albert Nnamani, Mr Innocent Agbo, Mr Innocent Eze, Mrs Chinyere Oluka (Secretary) and Solomon Ejim (counsel to the committee.