By Angela Atabo Abuja  –  Dr Boboye Oyeyemi, Corps Marshal ,Federal Road Safety Commission (FRSC), said the commission would collaborate with the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) to fight corruption through data sharing and training. Oyeyemi made this known when Mr Ibrahim Magu, Chairman, EFFC, paid a courtesy call on him on Thursday in Abuja. He said the visit was in furtherance  of  President  Muhammadu Buhari’s call for stronger  bond  among all the security agencies in the country. Oyeyemi said that the commission had trained EFCC’s personnel on accessibility to the national data base of drivers’ licence, vehicle registration and offenders’ record to make their work easier. “The visit is more of strengthening the bond between FRSC and EFCC; there are some verification portals that we have that can be useful to EFCC. “ Having eliminated the paper work, the EFCC has unrestricted access to the platform of the corps to be able to carry out its primary responsibilities. “These are  in terms of anti corruption issue, money laundering and other areas that they are assigned to . “So, we are bound and compelled to give them maximum support; we are going to be involved in the training of their personnel for the verification portal to make their work more easier .’’ The corps marshal said that the FRSC had developed a curriculum to be incorporated into the EFCC’s training programme as it did for other agencies. He said the essence was for all the agencies to work together and achieve the key benefit of the inter agency cooperation. “We are under the same government and this structure is available to all the security agencies ; we have trained some of them and will continue by providing regular training and update to them. “That is the best practice, and with the commitment and exposure level of the corps, owing to the fact that we already have a desk officer in EFCC’s intelligence unit, it would be achieved.’’ The Corps Marshal said the FRSC would fortify its activities in terms of patrol to be able to carry out operations to provide necessary feedback to the commission and other security agencies as may be required. Earlier,  Magu  expressed the need to collaborate with the FRSC because it was  also a  law  enforcement agency. Magu said his visit to FRSC was an eye opener  on the need for inter agency to cooperate and explore the possible areas of partnership. “The FRSC have data base that EFCC can use; we are trying to see how we can reduce our work load by working with other similar law enforcement agencies.
“We can share database as FRSC has very useful information to use; so, we will work together to improve each other.