By Stanley Nwanosike
Enugu –  Enugu State Government has launched an interactive internet online platform  “MY STEWARDSHIP” to engender people-oriented social engagement needed for an inclusive and responsive governance. Speaking on the development to newsmen on Tuesday in Enugu, the State Gov. Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi gave the name of the interactive on-line platform as. He said the digital ecosystem had become a veritable tool for good governance and citizen participation in government affairs. “We are in the age of ideas and the world of Internet has provided a critical enabler for citizens to express themselves freely and willingly on issues of state resource management and value allocation. “As a government, it has increasingly become clear to us that we need to engage the people much more robustly to ensure we filter the best of ideas, views and opinions. “That is why I have decided to launch this two-way social communication platform,” he said. He noted that his government is determined to reach out to more people to enable them to understand better how the state was being managed and create an information exchange that would enrich policy issues and people-oriented programmes. Ugwuanyi said he was fulfilled seeing the robust discussions and expressions of views by citizens of the state on the social media. He added that the time had come to harness these ideas and the people behind them into a community for easy harvest. “The past few months have been very challenging for us as a government, the country is going through a disturbing economic recession. “We have also found ourselves confronting security challenges of very strange dimensions. “But I must admit that while there were a number of errors in commentaries on the issues, especially as it affect security, which bothered on lack of proper understanding of the workings and processes of government,” he said. He however said that there have been positive inflows of suggestions and ideas that we have been able to leverage in revamping and strengthening the security structure of the entire Enugu State.