Enugu  – The police in Enugu on Tuesday arrested one of the gang members that killed seven tricycle riders and buried them in an uncompleted building at Ugwuaji near Enugu. Addressing newsmen in Enugu, the Commissioner of Police in the state, Mr Ekechukwu Nwodibo, said that the command also arrested other suspects for other crimes. He said that the suspect involved in the killing of tricycle riders, confessed that they had been operation in the Ugwuaji portion of the Enugu-Port Harcourt expressway. “The suspect and others now at large were killing commercial motorcycle riders in 2014 in Abuja and stealing their motorcycles but later spread their operation to Ado area of Nasarawa,’’ he said. The commissioner said that their operation failed in Nasarawa because one of them was arrested by the police while one escaped. He said that they relocated to Enugu when the arrested member was released. Nwodibo said that in Enugu, they met at a hotel in Abakpa and subsequently conspired to go after tricycle riders as commercial motorcycles are banned in Enugu. He alleged that the gang killed their victims and sold their tricycles between N250,000 and N350,000. Items recovered from the gang included two TVS tricycles, one Ford car with registration number AJ 656 EKJ, one iron hammer and a shovel. In a similar development, the police also nabbed a 21-year old armed robber and car snatching suspect from Amagunze in Nkanu East local government. Nwodibo said that one Honda car with registration ABS 66 AA, two locally made pistols, a live cartridge, 16 mobile phones and N14,000.00 were recovered from the suspect. He said that the command also arrested a 22-year old man for murdering one Nnamdi Onu on March 19 at Eke Odudo Market Square, Okwe Amankwo Ngwo in Udi local government. “The police recovered one locally made double barrel shut gun, two live cartridges and one expended cartridge. “The suspect had confessed to the crime, saying that the victim is a cultist belonging to BF fraternity while he is a member of 2-2 fraternity. “We also arrested eight pipeline vandals whose ages ranged between 26 and 40,’’ he said. Items recovered from them were 2,425 liters of diesel, one commuter Hiace bus, three hacksaw blades, four shovels, one machete, two Volkswagen buses, one Toyota Hilux and 82 empty jerry cans. Also recovered from them were one welding machine, one handy hammer, one short chisel rod, one bucket, two plastic funnels and N170,000. Nwodibo said that the command would make the state uncomfortable for criminals and advised them to look for genuine business to do. (NAN)