Washington –  Donald Trump, Republican Presidential front-runner, says U.S. has lacked a coherent foreign policy since the end of the cold war and must “shake the rust off” its approach to foreign matters. Trump said this on Wednesday night in his first major foreign policy address of the campaign, in Washington. “America first” would be the overriding theme of his administration. “I will view as president the world through the clear lens of American interests, “he said. Trump was unsparing in his critique of the foreign policy of the President Barack Obama and former secretary of state Hillary Clinton, which he slammed as a “complete and total disaster” that left a legacy of “weakness, confusion and disarray”. He said he did not support the Iraq war, which cost thousands of U.S. lives and trillions of dollars. Trump said the war had led to the rise of Islamic State and emboldened Iran. He said if elected, U.S. would be getting out of the nation-building business. Trump also pointed to Libya, Egypt and Syria as other failures of recent U.S. policy, and said the Middle East was more unstable and chaotic than ever before. Outside of the Middle East, Trump said that he would push allies to contribute to our tremendous security burden. “Besides the U.S. only four of the 28 NATO member countries devote the required 2-per cent of GDP toward their defence,’’ he said. Trump said even though U.S. had “serious differences” with Russia and China, yet they didn’t have to be adversaries. “Ending the horrible cycle of hostility” with Russia would be mutually beneficial to both nations, and an easing of tensions was possible from a position of strength. “If we can’t make a deal under my administration, a deal that’s great not good, great for America, but also good for Russia, then we will quickly walk from the table. It is as simple as that. “We are going to find out,” he said. He said that China wouldn’t be establishing bases in the South China Sea if it had more respect for the U.S. “China respects strength and by letting them take advantage of us economically, which they are doing like never before, we have lost all of their respect. The candidate also revisited his controversial proposal to halt the flow of Muslim immigrants to the U.S., saying there were scores of recent migrants inside our borders charged with terrorism. Trump alleged that there is no idea where the people are coming from. “There’s no documentation. “A pause for reassessment will help us to prevent the next San Bernardino or frankly, much worse,” he said, referring to the December attack in California carried out by a radicalised married couple. He also offered strong words for Islamic State that there days were numbered. “I won’t tell them where and I won’t tell them how. Trump promised to rebuild the U.S. military while rejecting the false song of globalism that led to trade agreements such as the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) between the US, Canada and Mexico. He described it as a total disaster for the U.S. economy. “The world is most peaceful and most prosperous when America is strongest. He said that if the US. regained its strength, wealth and respect, perhaps this century can be the most peaceful and prosperous the world has ever, ever known. Meanwhile, White House Spokesman, Josh Earnest, has refuted all the claims by Trump. He insisted that there is no denying the U.S. is safer and stronger than it is when President Obama took office in January 2009. (dpa/NAN)