By Oyirinda Wonodi A couple of months ago, I wrote about violence and the continuing ‎carnage in Rivers State. At that time, I deliberately chose to focus on the bloodbath, the butchery, kidnapping, armed robbery and the
daily dose of harassment taking place in the name of politics in Rivers State. Now that our governor, Chief Nyesom Wike, the supposed chief security officer of our state has come out in the open to condemn in unmistakable terms, and unfortunately too, the commendable actions of our security services, I am constrained again to speak. For those who do not know, Rivers has been in a state of war since 2011, a crisis occasioned by members of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), who sought at the time to illegally impeach our former governor, Hon. Chibuike Rotimi Amaechi. Nigerians saw the withdrawal of Amaechi’s security, the endless persecution of All Progressives
Congress (APC) members and the unbridled violence that was unleashed on our people. Everybody also witnessed attack on APC members across the state before, during and after last year’s general elections. [pro_ad_display_adzone id=”70560″] But in the midst of the high drama currently taking place in Rivers State, we must not lose sight of this regrettable comment by Wike. The governor, it would be recalled, had described the raid on militants and thugs as a witch-hunt targeted at PDP and its supporters in the state.
We knew all along that PDP supporters and members were the unseen hands but it is good that they have been unmasked by one of their own.
The governor’s comments, to say the least are worrisome especially given the fact that arms and ammunition were discovered during the raids. I am happy that all of us who opposed Wike’s style and tactics from the outet are now vindicated. Again, I am tempted to point at heavenly powers working with our distraught people to save our state. The Wike that I know will not tactlessly expose himself in such a manner but he did so to the glory of God. Wike, with his public statement has told the world that PDP and it’s patrons directly instigated all the violence and war raging in Rivers since 2011. The people of Rivers state can no longer afford the collateral damage of keeping a governor who appoints to public office, people of questionable character and openly fraternises with known criminals. Since the beginning of this raid on militants and their hideouts, there appears to be a new feeling of security particularly in the more endemic areas. But there is still a lot to be done. Rivers State is in real crisis and until an emergency is declared on violence, I am afraid the security problems may not abate. Rather than castigate the security officers, I think these gallant men deserve our commendation and support. If a governor is not worried about his state’s deteriorating and unfriendly economic climate, the daily fear of harm the citizens face, the regular robbery, kidnapping and harassment that have assumed extraordinary dimension, then your
guess is as good as mine. The good news, even in this season is that our people are united against all forms of violence and evil in Rivers State. Our elders and leaders are already showing the way. Recently, they threw away political affiliations to denounce Wike on his ungodly statement regarding the on-going raid. Other groups are also following in their footsteps but all Rivers sons and daughters must intensify efforts towards ridding our state of violence and criminal. Until this is achieved, we will continue to flounder, no matter how hard we try.