Lagos – A playwright and an actress, Bikiya Graham-Douglas, on Thursday in Lagos urged her contemporaries to always go for further trainings in order to be abreast of latest developments in the industry. Graham-Douglas, who is also the Chief Executive Officer, Beeta Universal Arts Foundation (BUAF), told the News agency of Nigeria (NAN). She said that through regular trainings they would also be more competent, versatile and horn their skills. She said that, “When we engage ourselves in further trainings, we upgrade what we do in the arts sector. “If we need skills to refocus, we need to go and acquire those skills to better our acts and also know how we can achieve more. “No matter how good you think you are, you must constantly build up your capacity and partner with people. “You must learn new ways in which you can connect with people because the industry is about people you know and those you meet in the course of your job,” she said. “If we are going to pass on any useful knowledge to the younger generation, we have to train and retrain ourselves so as to impact that knowledge in the industry,” Graham-Douglas said. According to the actress, her focus for the theatre is to be at the forefront in the country and help a lot of young people achieve their aims. “Theatre is about expressing yourself in your own language and showcasing what you can do. “My vision is for Nigeria theatre to be recognised and be in the forefront of the entertainment industry both in Nigeria and abroad,” she said. [pro_ad_display_adzone id=”70560″] The actress said that it was encouraging that Bolanle Austen-Peters, the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of Terra Kulture, is doing well in promoting theatre with SARO, the musical. “For you to enjoy theatre, it can be any company’s production. It is empowering and encouraging others to give us their own stories and the good direction.’’ NAN reports that Graham-Douglas had bagged a scholarship at the London Academy of Music and Dramatic Arts. Apart from being a degree holder, she trained in acting at the Oxford School of Drama and the Bridge Theatre Training Company. (NAN)