PORT HARCOURT (Sundiata Post) – The Rivers State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) says it can confirm that the prediction by its governorship candidate, Dr. Dakuku Peterside that PDP will become history in Rivers State by the end of 2015 has started manifesting following the massive defection of PDP members into the APC across Rivers State.
A statement sent to Sundiata Post and signed by Chris Finebone, state publicity secretary, says “‎As a political party that canvasses equal opportunity, Dr. Dakuku Peterside had also on 31st December, 2015 while welcoming former PDP members across the state, said that both old and new members would enjoy equal status as long as they register with the party before the forthcoming rerun elections.
“Following the avalanche of defections of mainly PDP members to join the APC, our party feels that it is important to re-assure our new members and all those delaying their movements into the APC, for some reasons, that the party and its leaders in Rivers State are committed to treating all members equally irrespective of when they joined the party. Indeed, the APC believes that, unlike the PDP in Rivers State which operates like George Orwell’s Animal Farm where a small clique is more equal than others, we are greater together because we are equal and like they say, the sky is so large that there is space for every star.
[pro_ad_display_adzone id=”70560”]
“Indeed, the APC holds no blame for all those who have now seen the light and the truth that the PDP is led by wickedly selfish individuals who care only about themselves and sometimes their immediate families. Governor Nyesom Wike has proven us right in such a short period as governor. His first consideration for appointments is his brothers, relations or in-laws while even his close associates are left to their fate. Governor Nyesom Wike’s recent appointment of Commissioners and Special Assistants was obviously made grudgingly because his misfortunes at the election tribunals, Appeal and Supreme Courts made it compelling on him.
“The APC will soon make public a comprehensive dossier of the deceits Nyesom Wike is inflicting on our people under the guise of cosmetic projects with the costs only known to the outgoing governor alone.
“In the light of the discovery of the nepotistic style of Governor Nyesom Wike and the obviously sinking ship of the PDP in Rivers State, we believe that only fools commit suicide because only the living praise God and have the opportunity to turn a new leaf and make a fresh start that is likely to end in good fortune and praise to God Almighty.”