By Ifeoma Akah Enugu  –  The Enugu State Government says it will deploy the newly recruited 5,000 teachers to various primary and secondary schools in the state in January 2017.
The Chairman of the state’s Post-Primary School Management Board (PPSMB), Mr Nestor Ezeme, made the disclosure on Tuesday at Queen’s School Enugu, during the scholarship award for winners of an essay competition by the school’s old girls.
Ezeme said that the move was part of Gov Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi’s efforts to improve education in the state.
The chairman also announced the abolition of special or miracle centres for the West African Senior School Certificate Examination (WASSCE) in the state.
“Henceforth, all SS2 students must write their WASSC examination in their respective schools and any SS2 student who leaves the school to write the examination elsewhere will not be accepted by any school in the state.
“Let me warn that any school principal found admitting SS3 students will be sanctioned by the government,’’ he warned.
Ezeme commended the Queen’s School, Enugu Old Girls Association for instituting the scholarship award for 13 exemplary students, urging them to do more for their alma mater.
He also congratulated the winners of the awards for making their school proud and advised them to work harder and win more prizes. Earlier, the representative of the US branch of the old girls association, Miss Nkechi Ugwu, said that they conducted an essay competition for 30 students of the school.
Ugwu said that five of the students who performed excellently received N100,000 each, while eight of them that also did well got consolation prizes of N25,000 each.
She said that two teachers who distinguished themselves were also rewarded by the old girls.
In her remarks, the Principal of the school, Mrs Ezigbo Nzeakor, thanked different branches of the association for their immense contributions toward the development of the school.
Also speaking, the state President of the association, Mrs Margaret Nwagbo, stressed the need to always give back to the society that shaped the lives of people.
Nwagbo urged the students to shun acts that could prevent them from completing their studies and becoming great people in future.
One of the beneficiaries of the award, Miss Ekene Ojiri, thanked the old students for their magnanimity and promised not to disappoint them and the school.
The event featured cultural displays and presentation of certificates to the awardees.