PORT HARCOURT (Sundiata Post) – The Rivers State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has denied that its governorship candidate in the April 11, 2015 governorship election in the state, Dr. Dakuku Peterside insulted Dr. Peter Odili, former governor of the state and his wife, Hon. Justice Mary Odili, a Justice of the Supreme Court. Reacting to a statement issued on Wednesday by the Rivers State PDP, the Rivers APC on Thursday, gave its own account of what Peterside said during the press conference he addressed on Wednesday in Port Harcourt on the Supreme Court decision on the Rivers State governorship election. The Rivers APC said: “We read with mixed feeling the press statement issued by the Rivers PDP titled, ‘Dakuku’s Attack on Odili, Height Of Frustration, Rascality – Rivers PDP Chairman’. Though, it is not our intention to exchange words with a group that have proved themselves as insensitive to the lives and plight of the Rivers State people but in order to put the records straight, let us state that the Rivers State PDP Chairman, Mr Obuah was totally wrong in his statement as Dr Peterside never insulted the Odilis but it seems that Mr Obuah must be suffering from low level education as he could not interpret correctly the statement by a credible and respected by PhD holder and respected gentleman from Rivers State who have proved himself as a better leader. For avoidance of doubt, Dr Peterside was only reacting to the insinuation by Chief Wike that the Odili’s were the forces behind his Supreme Court’s victory. For avoidance of doubt, this is what Dr Dakuku Peterside said, ‘For the records, in his speech at the church service, Gov. Nyesom Wike probably forgot that he was on live telecast when he stated: ‘Let me thank our former governor, Dr. Peter Odili [husband of Supreme Court Justice, Mary “Credible information confirmed that Nyesom Wike had earlier confessed to some persons of having met one of the Justices of the Supreme Court in Mbaise during an important burial, another at Owerri in a hotel and yet others in Dubai and Saudi Arabia respectively. These Justices were in the panel that decided the matter in Wike’s favour. “However, the most striking revelation by Nyesom Wike is contained in his account at the thanksgiving service last Sunday. He obviously stunned his audience and the watching world when he confessed that when it came to the Judges, Dr. Peter Odili and the wife Justice Mary Odili [a Justice of the Supreme Court] were his advisers. This simply confirmed his earlier statements that he had contact with the Justices after several attempts to reach the Chief Justice of the country failed. It is therefore obvious that the decision of the Supreme Court on the Rivers State Election was not a product of justice but rather a product of compromise and orchestrated contrivance to legalise electoral violence and rigging and, in turn, reward injustice. This calls for serious introspection by our Judiciary and judicial officers. “For the records, in his speech at the church service, Gov. Nyesom Wike probably forgot that he was on live telecast when he stated: “Let me thank our former governor, Dr. Peter Odili [husband of Supreme Court Justice, Mary Odili]. He will call me midnight to tell me what to do….he will say ‘go so so place.’ I took all his advice, and here we are today.” This shocking confession needs no further explanation except for you and other decent Nigerians to further make your fair conclusions”. “With this clarification, Mr Obuah should try and busy himself with how to clean the dirty environment Wike’s administration has bestowed on Rivers State as a legacy.” Chief Eze Chukwuemeka Eze
SSA on Media and Public Affairs to the State Chairman, APC Rivers State