 Gwagwalada (FCT)  –   Alhaji Zakari Angulu-Dobi (APC) representing Abuja South Federal Constituency in the House of Representatives, on Wednesday denied playing anti-party politics in the forthcoming council polls in the territory scheduled for March 19. Angulu-Dobi, who was reacting to a recent publication that he was sponsoring the chairmanship candidate of the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) in Gwagwalada Area Council, said the allegation was false. Dobi, a former chairman in the council, said that he had always been in the opposition party since his foray into politics. “In all my political life I have always been in the opposition party. I have not in any way participated in any anti-party activity. “I am in the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) and I have no intention to work against the party,’’ he said. He described the publication as the `handiwork of some political opponents bent on destroying my reputation.’ The legislator also denied rift between him and the incumbent chairman of Gwagwalada Area Council. He said that two of them were working towards the goal of ensuring that the APC produce the chairmanship candidate in the area. (NAN) [pro_ad_display_adzone id=”70560″] Alhaji Zakari Angulu-Dobi (APC) representing Abuja South Federal Constituency in the House of Representatives, on Wednesday denied playing anti-party politics in the forthcoming council polls in the territory scheduled for March 19. Angulu-Dobi, who was reacting to a recent publication that he was sponsoring the chairmanship candidate of the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) in Gwagwalada Area Council, said the allegation was false. Dobi, a former chairman in the council, said that he had always been in the opposition party since his foray into politics. “In all my political life I have always been in the opposition party. I have not in any way participated in any anti-party activity. “I am in the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) and I have no intention to work against the party,’’ he said. He described the publication as the `handiwork of some political opponents bent on destroying my reputation.’ The legislator also denied rift between him and the incumbent chairman of Gwagwalada Area Council. He said that two of them were working towards the goal of ensuring that the APC produce the chairmanship candidate in the area. (NAN)