Dutse – The Jigawa Government on Monday distributed motorcycles (the Qlink 150 brand) to 41 youths in the state at subsidised prices.
Alhaji Muhammad Mujaddadi, the Special Assistant to Gov. Muhammad Badaru on Economic Empowerment, who distributed the motorcycles, said they were to be used for commercial purposes by the beneficiaries.
“The 41 motorcycles are valued at N6, 285,000 and each of the beneficiaries is expected to pay only 65 per cent of the cost of the motorcycles, within 66 weeks.
“I urge you, the beneficiaries, to make good use of the motorcycles.
“I urge you further to repay back the money within the agreed period, to enable others benefit from similar gestures,’’ Mujadaddi said.
He said the gesture was specifically to tackle unemployment and reduce youth restiveness through the provision of empowerment loans.
Mujaddadi noted that the state government had over time introduced different skills acquisition training and empowerment programmes for the teeming youths and women in the state.
He urged the youths to embrace the government’s empowerment programmes for self-reliance, saying that white-collar jobs were no longer available.
Some of the beneficiaries who spoke to the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Dutse commended the state government for the gesture.[pro_ad_display_adzone id=”70560″]
A beneficiary, Sulaiman Yau, expressed joy over the gesture, saying that the brand of motorcycle costs N143, 000 in the market, but they were given out at the rate of N80, 000 by the state government.
Another beneficiary, Mustapha Aliyu, thanked the government and pledged to repay the money at the stipulated time.
Isma’il Ahmad, the Vice- Chairman of the commercial motorcyclists in the state, said the association had never witnessed such a gesture before.
Ahmad said the action showed that the present administration would reduce unemployment among youths through empowerment programmes in the state.
He urged the beneficiaries to repay the money on time so as to enable others to also benefit.
“We admonish you to take very good care of the motorcycles and endeavour to pay on time.
“This is a trial, if you fail, then there will be no gesture like this for you anymore and we do not want that to happen,’’ the vice-chairman warned the beneficiaries. (NAN)