ENUGU  – A conglomerate setting up budiness in Enugu State has promised to engage over 2,000 direct workers to reduce the employment challenge in the state. The managing director of the company, Rico Group of Companies, Mr. Eric Chime, stated this when the leadership of Enugu Chamber of Commerce, Industry, Mines and Agriculture lead by its president, Ugochukwu Chime paid a visit to one of the companies in Enugu. Chime lamented that governments were not leaving up to expectation by not meeting up with the provision of enabling environment and basic infrastructure such as roads, electricity and tax holiday to local companies as an encouragement for growth. “Some of the major challenges faced by local manufacturers are lack of basic infrastructure, such as good roads, electricity, over taxation of young Industries among others. Look at the road through which you came to this place how bad it is, you can see it is not encouraging,” Chime stated. Rico Group of Companies is into manufacturing of various motor oil lubricants, table water and agricultural produce etc. Chime emphasised that one of the main areas government could create jobs for the youth was to provide enabling environment to Nigerian companies to enable them create the jobs and compete favourably at the internationally market. The managing director, while commending ECCIMA for the visit, said he would set up six different industries within the business premises including a tourist site that would engage over 2,000 workers. Speaking after inspecting some equipment and other facilities in the company, the ECCIMA president, Ugochukwu Chime, said the visit was to encourage some of their members who are into job creation.
He said that the Chamber would not only end at visiting their members but was planning a business round table where business ideas would be cross fertilised for the benefit of the members.
Chime, who expressed delight at the production lines of the new company, said that Enugu was no longer regarded as a civil service state with the recent developments in growth of industries in the state.(Sundiata Post)