By Umar Sa’ad Hassan Prior to his victorious campaign in 2015, President Muhammadu Buhari had contested in three previous presidential elections and never once did he promise to scrap the First Lady office if he won. He only did that in the run-up to the last presidential polls.
PMB was always one to seize every opportunity to score a point with the average Nigerian. He had been depicted as the liberator of the masses right from his first run and he has always been ready to capitalise on that persona to impress if need be. Whether it was to promise he would make N1 equal to $1 or that he would end the Boko Haram insurgency within his first 100 days in office, he seemed to know just what the tired, angry, frustrated and used Nigerian wanted to hear. So when Senator Rabiu Musa Kwankwaso lost the APC presidential primaries to him, it was no surprise to many that Buhari lifted the Senator’s campaign promise of operating without a First Lady. It was succinctly delineating the wastefulness of previous governments and the candidate’s intention to halt it. But you just had to sense there was a problem. Buhari was no longer running in the old ANPP or CPC fashion, he was doing so under a much bigger platform that necessitated a much more elaborate way of doing things. He was now flaunting his loving father and caring grandpa photos on social media to appeal to a broader range of voters and what more his wife had been dragged from behind the scenes and thrust right into the heart of things. He had made a promise more in consonance with the archaic manner in which his campaigns were run on one hand while also agreeing to subscribe to a new order on the other and there was bound to be one of two things if he won – sticking to a promise that wasn’t original or a hypocritical first ladyship and the technical revocation of a quite sensitive campaign promise. Sensitive in the sense that it is capable of sending a perhaps wrong message to Nigerians that they were just being sold the same product in a new package. The truth is nothing has changed. We have a First Lady, who like every one before her, is a wife of the President. When questions started being asked about Aisha Buhari’s use of the First Lady’s office, it was funny to hear the SA to President Buhari on media, Mallam Garba Shehu, say there was nothing wrong with it because she wasn’t doing so in her “official capacity”. I just couldn’t make any sense of it. What is her “official capacity” if she had one? It either meant someone needed to get the full meaning of the phrase ‘First Lady’ or that she was a hypocritical occupant of the office.
As of this moment, she has her own retinue of aides which include a special adviser, senior special assistant on administration, senior special assistant on media and a director of information. Does anybody still think Buhari stuck to his promise of abolishing the First Lady office? I don’t think so.
He rebranded it at best by merely changing the name. Just like every administration before his, he will concede to the fact that the office is not constitutional but he has earned no special right to wax sanctimonious about not wasting our declining resources on ‘his wife’s office’. Nigerians are not fools.
We have watched her set up her Future Assured pet project to cater for the less privileged and though her strides have been quite commendable, there are questions as to the funding of her activities baring in mind that the President earns about N1.2M monthly with no salary for the First Lady.
In Gombe Statr alone, she donated foodstuff across 11 local governments worth millions of naira and a sickle cell detecting machine to the Federal Teaching Hospital. Her donations to other states and the IDPs are befitting of the wife of a President like we used to know them before we voted ‘change’, so its safe to ask in this era: from whose kitty? The official amount said to have been realised from her book launch and fundraiser was N55m which she pledged to the parents of the Chibok and Buni Yadi Boko Haram victims. Nobody bothered to give us an explanation as to why she opted for secret donations. Some staff of a commercial bank had set up a stand at the venue in anticipation of huge donations by guests but ended up leaving there disappointed. If her husband’s anti-corruption war is as sincere as we have been made to believe, then none of the political office holders at the venue would dare play ‘Fat Santa’.
Why would anyone hide people’s contribution to their cause on a day they had gathered to celebrate them? It only means one thing: there is an ugly side to it. If the First Lady and her gang didn’t want to raise eyebrows as to how their donors (a lot of them former or present office holders) came about the sums they donated then it might just be because a chunk of it is taxpayers’ money. To further illustrate the true role of Buhari’s wife, she partnered with the Cameroonian First Lady, Chantal Biya in the areas of women and children development when Mrs Biya accompanied her husband on a two-day visit to Nigeria and even went on to host the wives of all envoys to Nigeria to sell her ‘Future Assured’ pet project. I ask: What has Buhari ‘changed’ by scrapping the First Lady office for one of the Wife of the President when the roles are basically the same with his wife being even more active than the last two First Ladies at this stage.
She has gone on to host and thank the social media influencers who helped campaign for her husband at the Villa and launch a book all within the space of a year. Is it right to provide aides and make available our resources to an unconstitutional office the President said he didn’t recognise? As a campaign strategy, it worked and contributed in further selling the ‘Change’ mantra to Nigerians but if any other President promises to scrap the First Lady office and allows his wife do the things Aisha Buhari is doing, then he wouldn’t have done anything because like every other one we have had, she is a First Lady who is the wife of the President. Period. *Hassan is a lawyer based in Kano.Twitter:@alaye26 Email:uhassan077@gmail.com