Abuja –  Fans of popular Nigerian singer, Tiwa Savage in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) have continued to pour encomiums on the star for bagging the “Hero of the Month’’ award. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports on Tuesday that Savage was bestowed with the award by a South African media house, Reel Africa. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the former Mavin Records singer was presented with a plaque of honour on Friday, July 9, in a brief ceremony which held in South Africa. Nene Udo, a hair-stylist at Petals Hair and Spa, congratulated the singer, saying it was nice that an organisation recognised Savage for her good works and great personality. “Tiwa Savage is a strong woman and one that continues to set great examples for us all. “I am really happy that she was awarded as the hero of the month and that she has been recognised at such an international level. “I just pray that she continues to grow and not derail from her inspirational path,” Udo said. Simi Ogundipe, an aspiring television personality told NAN that she was happy for the singer, adding that its like the “breakup of her marriage had brought her various blessings’’. “I was delighted to see her instagram post of the award and was happy that she was being rewarded and recognised for giving back to the needy. “Just a few months ago, she got that record deal with Jay Z, the owner of Roc Nation label. “She later got the E! Channel Special, where they showcased her life and career, not to mention her success with the brands she represents. “All these blessings came after she broke up with her husband and if you ask me, I think the ex-husband was kind of a hindrance to her success, she said. Chibuzor Mbanefo, an entrepreneur expressed happiness that such a strong Nigerian personality like Savage was being recognised internationally for her charity efforts. “I think most men find Tiwa Savage attractive, not just because of her striking beauty, but for her confidence and attitude to work. “She is definitely a spectacular role model and I encourage women to look up to her in terms of how she handles her business and also her marriage. “She was in a terrible marriage and nobody actually knew. Unlike all these celebrities we read about on tabloids, she tried to contain the situation and manage her marriage. “I am truly happy for her. She is an example of a leading woman,’’ Mbanefo said. Femi George, an upcoming fashion designer congratulated the star on her award, wishing her continuous success. “I really pray that this woman continues to be blessed for being the kind and wonderful lady she is. “Even as she doesn’t have as much money as we thought she did, she still found it necessary to help out these kids in South Africa and she kept it under wraps. “It’s nice to see someone, who went through a difficult marriage and had to painfully speak about it continue to succeed in her endeavours,’’ George said. Savage recently became a goodwill ambassador for the ‘Orphanage Africa’, an organisation that helps rebuild and refurbish orphanage homes across Africa. She has also been working closely with The House Group, which focuses on retrieving and rehabilitating female victims of child trafficking and sexual exploitation. Savage visited The House Group orphanage over the weekend to support the organisation and was accompanied by the South African Minister of Home, Honourable Malusi Gigaba. Gigaba is known to have also been at the forefront of fighting against child trafficking and human smuggling. (NAN)