UMUAHIA (Sundiata Post) – The Abia State chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party on Sunday in Umuahia raised the alarm over alleged desperate plans by a popular politician in Abia State to grasp power through the back door by kidnapping Judicial officers and its members. A statement by State Publicity Secretary of PDP, Sir Don Ubani, advised him to “retrace his nefarious steps” as he would regret the consequences of his action. He said, “The PDP in Abia State has frowned at the reports making round the State that a certain desperate politician in the State, whose illegal efforts to cease power from the back door has been frustrated by decent application of the rule of law, is now directing his evil machination towards kidnapping Judicial officers in the State with the hope of intimidating them in order to have access to power he did not canvass for. “We have also taken cognizance of the inordinately- ambitious politician’s plot to kidnap some top functionaries of our in the State. Intelligence reports available to us have revealed that the political desperado is embittered that the State Executive of the Party did not come out to support his acts of illegality. “The PDP is therefore cautioning him that is involved in this sacrilegious and bloody shenanigan to quickly retrace his nefarious steps as the likely consequences of his devious desires and mischievous plots would compound his imagination and would only leave him with regrets that may not be redressed or even corrected in his life’s time. We wish to remind him that he that throws stones into a crowded market should not forget that his loved ones could end up being the victims of his action.”  Sundiata Post recalls that there is tussle for the governorship following an Abuja high court judgment last week voiding the nomination of Governor Okezie Ikpeazu as the PDP governorship candidate in the 2015 election in the state. The court had ordered the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to issue a Certificate of Return to Mr. Ugochukwu Ugah as the elected governor of the state.