ABUJA (Sundiata Post) – The acting chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), Ibrahim Magu, has warned members of the public not to be hoodwinked by people who used his name for extortion under the guise that they would help to release suspects under investigation. Magu distanced himself from such people on Thursday in a statement signed by the Head, Media and Publicity of EFCC, Mr. Wilson Uwujaren, saying that he never mandated anybody to act on his behalf for such acts. “It has come to the knowledge of the EFCC, that some persons have been dropping the name of its Chairman, Ibrahim Magu, and claiming that they have his permission to ask for payments to secure the release of suspects under investigation by the Commission,” the statement read. According to him, some unsuspecting members of the public have fallen victim of this scam and made huge payments to this syndicate. “The Commission warns the public to be wary of the activities of these fraudulent individuals who have no relationship whatsoever with Mr. Magu and the EFCC,” the statement further read. “I have not mandated anybody to collect money on my behalf from any person or organisation. It is not in my character to do so otherwise I will not be in this office. I am contented with what I am paid at the end of the month”, Magu clarified. He called on members of the public, especially relatives and friends of persons under investigation by the Commission to quickly report any person who approaches them with a proposal to collect bribe on his behalf for the release of their loved ones, to the Commission. “Anyone caught trying to tarnish my hard earned reputation and integrity must be prepared to face the music. I have accounts in three banks and, on no account should anybody make lodgement into any of my accounts without my knowledge”, the EFCC boss warned. In recent weeks, he said, there had been an upsurge in the activities of scammers who parade themselves as having links with leadership of the Commission and the capability to release suspects. He disclosed that some of the scam calls sent to members of the public across the country, conveyed the Commission’s purported readiness to “play ball, release suspects as long as reasonable settlement is arranged”. Magu, however, assured that the Commission would discharge its duties, “guided solely by the fear of Almighty God, the overriding interest of our fatherland, Nigeria and the rule of law and not any pecuniary motive”. He urged members of the public a to report calls from suspected scammers and forward the callers’ numbers to the EFCC via the following: info@efccnigeria.org, theeagle@efccnigeria.org. The Commission could also be reached on the folowing hotlines: 09-9044571, 09-9044572, 09-9044573.