Enugu – The Enugu State branch of the Nigeria Bar Association (NBA) on Monday honoured, retired Justice Ifeyinwa Enejere of Enugu High Court, for her forthrightness on the Bench.
Prof. Osita Ogbu, the state NBA Chairman, who presented the award in Enugu, described the judge as one of the `most courageous justices’ in the Nigerian judiciary.
Ogbu said it was regrettable that Enejere left the bench at a time the judiciary was on trial due to the unwholesome activities of unscrupulous elements in the sector.
According to him, the funny thing about the practice of law is that litigants even know the good and bad members of the Bench.
“These days, we see dishonourable things coming from the Bench, but Enejere deserves the honour due to her industry and courage.
“She exemplified uprightness and integrity and she is one of the greatest to have emerged from the South- East,” he said.
The chairman said that Enejere was even dreaded by money bags and those whose reputations were to bribe judges with a view to upturning justice.
“Those who bribe dare not go close to her court. As you are dreaming it, you are also dreaming going to prison.
“She was wonderful and these are the type of judges we want in Nigeria. We want more of them,” Ogbu said.
The chairman called on members of the Bench and Bar to close ranks in order to redeem the image of the judiciary.
“People should learn that accumulation of bride does not mean anything, but integrity pays,” he said.
Ogbu pledged the willingness of the NBA in the state to continue contributing to the growth of the judicial system through its oversight functions on members.
In his remarks, a constitutional lawyer and activist, Prof. Race Achara, described the award as `a celebration of excellence and a vindication of upright members of the bench’.
Achara challenged other justices to emulate Enejere, who displayed impeccable character as the country strived to strengthen the justice delivery system.
Responding, the representative and son of the awardee, Mr Nnamdi Enejere, said it was an honour to remember the contributions of his mother to the practice of law and growth of the judiciary.
Enejere said that his mother who was in India tending to her sick husband would be delighted to have been remembered by those whom she adjudicated on their matters.
The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the event also featured the presentation of the first law journal published by the chapter in its 50 years of existence. (NAN)